= Hubspot

This gem is a Rails Engine for communicating with several Hubspot API's. Furthermore, it provides some helpers
to easily integrate Hubspot in your website. This gem only uses standard ActiveResource and Net/HTTP and has been
tested with unit tests and VCR for replaying HTTP requests.

== Requirements

  Rails 3

== Installation

Add hubspot to your Gemfile:

  gem 'hubspot'

== Configuration

This gem is a Rails Engine. The gem can be configured by changing the default engine configuration. The following settings
can be added to your application.rb or an initializer:

* Hubspot.config.hubspot_site         = 'demo.app11.hubspot.com'
The domain of your Hubspot site, which is used in the javascript tracker code

* Hubspot.config.hubspot_access_token = 'demooooo-oooo-oooo-oooo-oooooooooooo'
The access token for authenticating to several Hubspot services

* Hubspot.config.hubspot_key          = 'demo'
Your API key

* Hubspot.config.hubspot_portal_id    = '62515'
Your Portal ID

* Hubspot.config.debug_http_output    = false
Enables/disables logging of HTTP requests and response. False disables debugging, setting it to STDOUT enables logging to STDOUT. Of course you can specify any IO object you want.

== Usage

Currently, the gem supports the following Hubspot API's:

* Leads

See: http://developers.hubspot.com/docs/endpoints#leads-api

** Finds

  Hubspot::Lead.find :all, :params => { :search => 'test' }
  Hubspot::Lead.find <GUID>  

** Updates

  lead.firstName = 'Reinier'; lead.save!
  lead.update_attributes(:firstName => 'Reinier')

* Blogs (including posts and comments)

See: http://developers.hubspot.com/docs/endpoints#blog-api

** Finds
  Hubspot::Blog.find :all, :params => { :max => 10 }
  Hubspot::Blog.find <GUID>  
  
** Posts
  Hubspot::Blog.find('guid').posts
  
*** Post comments
  Hubspot::Blogs::Post.find("6ca6fdc5-a81f-44db-a63b-f56ab2636c69", :params => { :blog_guid => "0d61e4ca-e395-4c1c-8766-afaa48bf68db" }).comments

** Comments
  Hubspot::Blog.find('guid').comments  

* Keywords

See: http://developers.hubspot.com/docs/endpoints#keywords-api

** Finds

  Hubspot::Keyword.find(:all, :params => { :max => 5 })
  Hubspot::Keyword.find('guid')
  
** Creates

  Hubspot::Keyword.create!({ :keyword => { :keyword => 'key' }})  
  Hubspot::Keyword.create({ :keyword => { :keyword => 'key' }})  
  
* Events

See: http://developers.hubspot.com/docs/endpoints#events-api

** Finds

  Hubspot::Event.find(:all, :params => { :max => 5 })
  
** Creates

  Hubspot::Event.create!(:eventType => 'new event', :description => 'test')
  Hubspot::Event.create(:eventType => 'new event', :description => 'test')  
  
* Performable events

See: http://performabledoc.hubspot.com/display/DOC/HTTP+API

** Records

  event = Hubspot::Performable::Event.new('event-12345', Date.civil(2012), nil, 'http://example.com')
  event.custom_parameters = { :email => 'test@example.com' }  
  event.save!

Please take a look at the unit tests for examples!

== Action controller extensions

For now, there is only a convenience method for getting the current user token:

  hubspot_user_token # Retrieves the user token from the Hubspot 'hubspotutk' cookie (if any)

== HubspotHelper

The HubspotHelper can be used to insert the Hubspot javascript tracker code to your website. First include the helper:

  class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
    helper HubspotHelper
  end
  
Then, you can add the javascript tracker code easily by calling the helper:

  <body>
    ...
    <%= hubspot_javascript_tracker %>
  </body>
  
== Acknowledgements

* Thanks go to Josh Lane from which I took some of the code of his Hubspot API implementation (https://github.com/lanej/hubspot-api)
  
== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2012 Reinier de Lange. See LICENSE for details.  
  
